DOCS-7105 Email Connector 1.2 Reference (#582)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/email/email-documentation.adoc

| Streaming Strategy a| * <<repeatable-in-memory-iterable>>
* <<repeatable-file-store-iterable>>
* non-repeatable-iterable |  Configure to use repeatable streams |  | 
| Attachment Naming Strategy a| Enumeration, one of:

** NAME
** NAME_HEADERS
** NAME_HEADERS_SUBJECT |  Indicates how to retrieve attachment names |  | 
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable to store the operation's output |  | 
| Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output and store the expression outcome in the target variable |  `#[payload]` | 
| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<reconnect>>
* <<reconnect-forever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors |  | 
|===

==== Output
[%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Type |Array of Message of [<<StoredEmailContent>>] payload and [<<IMAPEmailAttributes>>] attributes
|===

=== For Configurations
* <<imap>> 

==== Throws
* EMAIL:EMAIL_LIST 
* EMAIL:CONNECTIVITY 

[[markAsDeleted]]
=== Mark As Deleted
`<email:mark-as-deleted>`

> Marks an incoming email as `DELETED`. Emails that are marked for deletion are scheduled for deletion when the folder closes, which means that the email is not physically eliminated from the mailbox folder, but that its state changes.  All emails that are marked as `DELETED` are eliminated from the mailbox when one of `IMAPOperations#expungeFolder(MailboxConnection, String)` or `IMAPOperations#delete(MailboxConnection, String, long)` is executed. This operation targets a single email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marks an incoming email as `DELETED`. Emails that are marked for deletion are scheduled for deletion when the folder closes, which means that the email is not physically eliminated from the mailbox folder, but its state changes.  All emails that are marked as `DELETED` are eliminated from the mailbox when one of `IMAPOperations#expungeFolder(MailboxConnection, String)` or `IMAPOperations#delete(MailboxConnection, String, long)` is executed. This operation targets a single email.
```

| Streaming Strategy a| * <<repeatable-in-memory-iterable>>
* <<repeatable-file-store-iterable>>
* non-repeatable-iterable |  Configure to use repeatable streams. |  | 
| Attachment Naming Strategy a| Enumeration, one of:

** NAME
** NAME_HEADERS
** NAME_HEADERS_SUBJECT |  Indicates how attachment names should be retrieved. |  | 
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable to store the operation's output. |  | 
| Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output and store the expression outcome in the target variable |  `#[payload]` | 
| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<reconnect>>
* <<reconnect-forever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  | 
|===

==== Output
[%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Type |Array of Message of [<<StoredEmailContent>>] payload and [<<POP3EmailAttributes>>] attributes
|===

=== For Configurations
* <<pop3>> 

==== Throws
* EMAIL:EMAIL_LIST 
* EMAIL:CONNECTIVITY 

[[send]]
=== Send
`<email:send>`

> This operation sends an email message. The message is sent to all recipient  `To`, `CC`, and `BCC` addresses specified in the message.  The content of the message is some type of text (`text/plain`, `text/html`) and is composed by the body and its content type. If no content is specified then the incoming payload is converted into plain text if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation sends an email message. The message is sent to all recipient  `To`, `CC`, and `BCC` addresses specified in the message.  The content of the message is some type of text (`text/plain`, `text/html`) and is composed of the body and its content type. If no content is specified then the incoming payload is converted into plain text if possible.
```

==== Parameters
[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use | | x

> | From Address a| String |  The "From" address of the message sender. sender address. If not set, it defaults to the "From" address specified in the config. |  | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| From Address a| String |  The "From" address of the message sender. If not set, it defaults to the "From" address specified in the config. |  | 
```

| To Addresses a| Array of String |  The recipient addresses of "To" (primary) type |  | x
| Cc Addresses a| Array of String |  The recipient addresses of "CC" (carbon copy) type |  | 
| Bcc Addresses a| Array of String |  The recipient addresses of "BCC" (blind carbon copy) type |  | 
| Reply To Addresses a| Array of String |  The email addresses to which to reply to this email |  | 
| Subject a| String |  The subject of the email |  [No Subject] | 

> | Headers a| Object |  The headers that this email carry |  | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Headers a| Object |  The headers that this email carries |  | 
```

| Content a| Binary |  Text body of the message, which can be in any format |  `#[payload]` | 
| ContentType a| String |  Content Type of the body text. Example: "text/plain" |  | 
| Encoding a| String |  The character encoding of the body. If it is configured, it overrides the one inferred from the body. |  | 
| Content Transfer Encoding a| String |  Encoding used to indicate the type of transformation that has been used to represent the body in an acceptable manner for transport. The value is case insensitive.  Known encodings:  BASE64, QUOTED-PRINTABLE, 8BIT, 7BIT, BINARY  |  `Base64` | 
| Attachments a| Object |  The attachments that are sent along with the email body |  | 

> | Content Transfer Encoding a| String |  Encoding used to indicate the type of transformation that is used to represent the body in an acceptable manner for transport. The value is case insensitive.  Known encodings:  BASE64, QUOTED-PRINTABLE, 8BIT, 7BIT, BINARY  |  `Base64` | 

Reviewer: Is this a repeat of line 531?

Author: Looks like it!

| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<reconnect>>
* <<reconnect-forever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors |  | 
|===

=== For Configurations
* <<smtp>> 

==== Throws
* EMAIL:SEND 
* EMAIL:CONNECTIVITY 
* EMAIL:RETRY_EXHAUSTED 

== Sources

[[listener-imap]]
=== On New Email - IMAP
`<email:listener-imap>`

Retrieves all the emails from an IMAP mailbox folder, watermark can be enabled for polled items.

==== Parameters
[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | | x
| Folder a| String |  The name of the folder to poll emails from.  |  `INBOX` | 
| Delete After Retrieve a| Boolean |  Enables the deletion of the polled emails after being retrieved. This is disabled by default. | `false` | 
| Enable Watermark a| Boolean |  If watermark should be applied to the polled emails or not. Default to true. |  true | 

> | Imap Matcher a| <<imap-matcher>> |  A matcher to filter emails retrieved by this polling source. For default already read emails will be filtered. |  | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Imap Matcher a| <<imap-matcher>> |  A matcher to filter emails retrieved by this polling source. By default already read emails will be filtered. |  | 
```

| Eviction Check Interval Millis a| Number | Specifies the number of milliseconds between runs of the object evictor. When non-positive, no object evictor is executed. |  | 
| Exhausted Action a| Enumeration, one of:

** WHEN_EXHAUSTED_GROW
** WHEN_EXHAUSTED_WAIT
** WHEN_EXHAUSTED_FAIL | Specifies the behavior of the Mule component pool when the pool is exhausted. Possible values are: `WHEN_EXHAUSTED_FAIL`, which will throw a `NoSuchElementException`, `WHEN_EXHAUSTED_WAIT`, which will block by invoking `Object.wait(long)` until a new or idle object is available, or `WHEN_EXHAUSTED_GROW`, which will create a new Mule instance and return it, essentially making `maxActive` meaningless. If a positive `maxWait` value is supplied, it will block for, at most, that many milliseconds, after which a `NoSuchElementException` is thrown. If `maxThreadWait` is a negative value, it blocks indefinitely. |  | 
| Initialisation Policy a| Enumeration, one of:

** INITIALISE_NONE
** INITIALISE_ONE

> ** INITIALISE_ALL | Determines how components in a pool should be initialized. The possible values are: `INITIALISE_NONE` (will not load any components into the pool on startup), `INITIALISE_ONE` (loads one initial component into the pool on startup), or `INITIALISE_ALL` (loads all components in the pool on startup) |  | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** INITIALISE_ALL | Determines how components in a pool should be initialized. The possible values are: `INITIALISE_NONE` (loads no components into the pool on startup), `INITIALISE_ONE` (loads one initial component into the pool on startup), or `INITIALISE_ALL` (loads all components in the pool on startup) |  | 
```
